# Entry 1
##### 11/8/21

 This year, In SEP 11, we were tasked with creating some kind of app that we were passionate about utilizing a JavaScript tool. So the first step in creating an app is to find out what kind of app I want to make. The first idea that popped up to me was creating something that can store information. But the problem was I didn't know what kind of information I wanted to store. So before going further with that, I decided to first find a JavaScript tool that could help me store information. The first thing that popped up was firebase because my teacher would always something along the lines of, "When creating an app that requires storing information, you would probably need firebase". So the first thing I did was research about firebase and how to start learning it. So I searched Firebase on Google and turns out Google owns firebase. So the first thing I did was sign up for Google Firebase. After signing up for firebase I researched some of the options that firebase offers, The way I did it was basically going through different articles and youtube videos about each tool and the one that stuck out to me were Firestore. The reason behind this is because Firestore is one of the parts of Firebase that can store data. On my journey to learn a bit about Firestore, I went on youtube to search for some tutorials/demos. The one I specifically watch was [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4d-gIPGzmK4&list=PL4cUxeGkcC9itfjle0ji1xOZ2cjRGY_WB) one. I only watched the first two videos, Introduction and Setting up Firebase, until I started to think about what kind of information I wanted to store. I had a few ideas, things like a planning app and password storer. One thing that did kind of interest me was when Wei Jie said he wanted to create an app that can store game information. I am a person who does likes games and computers so I was thinking about working with Wei Jie. After tinkering with Firebase a bit more, I was thinking about trying to find something else I could make, just to see if there was something else that interests me more. The one backup I thought about was building a computer with Aframe or Babylon. But after learning and thinking about Firebase a bit more, I decided to stick with Firebase and work with Wei Jie. Wei Jie wanted to create something broader, not just an app that stores game information but any kind of data in general. I thought that it sounded like a pretty good idea since it would not limit people to only finding game data but to instead be able to store anything they want in blocks of data. After figuring out what Wei Jie and I wanted to do, we both started learning a bit of Firebase together in class, coincidentally we used the same video and we started from episode [3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kmTECF0JZyQ&list=PL4cUxeGkcC9itfjle0ji1xOZ2cjRGY_WB&index=3) together. Which leads me to where I am right now.
 
 
 Right now, I think that I am currently at EDP 3 or 4, where I’m kind of researching/planning solutions to the “problem”. The problem I’m solving is organizing information and right now I’m learning how to utilize Firebase to create an app to solve it. The app would basically allow someone to click a block, expand it, and store any kind of information they want to store in it, so it can be passwords or some kind of reminder. The skills I developed over the course of these past few weeks were “How to learn” and “How to read”.  The reason is I learned through youtube videos and I read a few articles on the different tools in firebase.

 
 
 


[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)
